**Psyche Mission**  
NASA's Psyche mission is a scientific excursion to the unusual metal-rich asteroid, 16 Psyche, found in the main asteroid belt between Mars and Jupiter. It is of great importance because it is not made of rock or ice, as are most asteroids, but is believed to be made mostly of nickel and iron. Scientists think that it may be the exposed core of an early planetary building block, called a planetesimal, giving scientists a rare chance to study a planetary core directly.  

**Mission Trajectory and Spacecraft**    
The Psyche spacecraft was launched Oct. 13, 2023, and is planned to arrive at its asteroid target in August 2029\. The journey to the asteroid belt is a long one, spanning nearly six years. To efficiently reach its destination, the spacecraft uses solar-electric propulsion. This type of propulsion uses the power of its extensive solar panels to generate electricity to activate thrusters which produce thrust by expelling accelerated charged xenon gas. In 2026, the spacecraft will use the gravity of Mars in a “slingshot” maneuver to speed it and alter its trajectory into a course to Psyche.

**Scientific Instruments and Objectives**  
The spacecraft will arrive at asteroid 16 Psyche and will spend 26 months orbiting it. Its primary scientific goal is to investigate the composition, structure, and origin of the asteroid. It will make these scientific investigations with a suite of sophisticated scientific instruments:  
The Multispectral Imager, a camera system, will make high resolution pictures of the surface of the asteroid in various wavelengths of light and will allow the mapping of the topography and investigation of its geologic features.  
The Gamma Ray and Neutron Spectrometer will measure the surface composition by making a measurement of the gamma rays and neutrons that are given off from the surface of the asteroid.  This instrument will tell us what chemical elements are present.  
The Magnetometer is a sensor designed to investigate the presence of a magnetic field, which will yield evidence if the asteroid had in the past a molten, dynamic core, which is a parameter of a planetary body.  
The Gravity Science Investigation will enable the mapping of the gravity field of the asteroid through analysis of the radio signals from the spacecraft. The gravity field will present important data with regard to the internal structure and mass distribution of the asteroid.

**Significance of the Mission**  
This mission to Psyche will be the first mission ever to explore a metal world. The knowledge gained from the mission is expected to yield fundamental insights into our solar system and its origin. By investigating what is likely the core of a planet, we will improve our knowledge of the violent collisions and accretion processes that produced the terrestrial planets such as the Earth. Also, the mission will test a new laser communications technique, Deep Space Optical Communications (DSOC), which has an extremely large bandwidth, which might revolutionize data transmission from deep space in future missions.